CITY OF HOBOKEN
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES

RENT LEVELING
EMILY JABBOUR y. CHRISTOPHER BROWN
Mayor for, Director
RENT CONTROL ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 155
REGULATIONS

DIANE NIEVES-CARRERAS, RENT REGULATION OFFICER
124 Grand Street - Hoboken, NJ 07030-0485 - (201) 420-2000 Ext. 1721
dearreras@hobokennj.gov


.,




                                   Rent Control Ordinance
                                         Preamble
                                    THE GENERAL ORDINANCES
                                      SECTIONS 18:53 TO 18:61

          AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND AN ORDINANCE ENTITIBD "AN ORDINANCE TO REGULATE
     CONTROL AND STABILIZE RENTS OF MULTIPLE DWELLINGS AND TO CREATE A RENT CONTROL
     BOARD AND SUPPLEMENTING CHAPTER 18 OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
     HOBOKEN, ADOPTED JANUARY 1959, AND TO BE KNOWN AS SECTIONS 18:53 TO 18:61 OF TI-IE
     GENERAL ORDINANCES OF TIIE CITY OF HOBOKEN."

             WHEREAS, the governing body of the City of Hoboken has determined that a critical
     shortage of housing space exists in the City of Hoboken and, therefore, hereby declare that an
     emergency exists within the City of Hoboken with respect to the rental housing space by reason
     of such shortages, undue bargaining power has been obtained by landlords, resulting in numerous
     increases in rent which are determined by said government body to be exorbitant, speculative and
     unwarranted and that such increases are causirtg severe hardships upon tenants and their families
     and the displacement of tenants and their families from the City and are adversely affecting the
     health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the City of Hoboken warranting legislative
     action by the governing body in the public interest; and

             WHEREAS, pursuant to the police powers granted to the Municipal Council in order to
     protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Hoboken, it is necessary to create a Rent
     Leveling and Stabilization Board and omcer within the City of Hoboken.

            NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hoboken as
     follows:

            Sections 18:53 to 18:61 of the General Ordinances of the City ofl{oboken, adopted on
     February 3, 1977 and amended on Jlily24,) 981, and August 23, 1984 are hereby rescinded and
     repealed. In their place and stead the Council of the Mayor and Council of the City of Hoboken,
     hereby adopts the following:


Regulation 10:54(A)

01 -

02 -

Adopted:

The Rent Board Administrator shall have the jurisdiction to calculate
legal rents, A tenant may request a legal rent calculation where the
tenant's rent is believed to be in excess of the legal rent as established
pursuant to the ordinance. Section 18:56(B). The tenant shall provide
the Administrator with a statement explaining the reason for the
calculation request and shall supply any supporting materials deemed
necessary to the resolution of the matter. Likewise, a landlord may
request a legal rent calculation where it has insufficient information
upon which to establish the lepal rent for one of its rental units.

Subsequent to receipt of the tenant's request for a legal rent calculation,
the Rent Board Administrator shall serve upon the landlord, by registered
ot certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the application for
arent calculation. An additional copy of such notice shall be sent to the
landlord through the regular mail. The landlord shall have thirty (30)

days from service of the said notice to supply whatever information it
deems necessary to support the rent billing charged to the tenant. After
receipt of the landlord's information, or after the time for supplying same
has expired, the-Bent Board Administrator shall make a determination of
the legal renj, If however, the Rent Board Administrator concludes that
the information supplied requires a hearing or either the landlord or tenant
request a hearing and demonstrates a need for same, then a hearing shall

be promptly scheduled at the Rent Control Office to be conducted by the
Rent Board Administrator, After the hearing, the Rent Board Administrator
shall make a determination of the legal rent and provide a written statement
of any findings of fact or conclusions of law with respect to same, If
circumstances so require, this initial hearing may be conducted by the Rent
Leveling and Stabilization Board.

November 11, 1987

Brie be eer sbils

45525


DAWN ZIMMER
Mayor

CITY OF HOBOKEN
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES
RENT LEVELING

LEO PELLEGRINI
Director

Regulation 10:54(A) — Legal Rent Calculation

01-

02:

03

05-

The Rent Regulation Officer shall have the jurisdiction to calculate legal rents. A tenant
may request a legal rent calculation where the tenant’s rent is believed to be in excess of
the legal rent as established pursuant to the ordinance. Section 155-3, 155-4 and 155-5.
The tenant shall provide the Officer with a statement explaining the reason for the
calculation request. and shal! supply any supporting materials deemed necessary to the
resolution of the matter. Likewise, a landlord may request a legal rent calculation where
it has insufficient information upon which to establish the legal rent for one of its rental
units,

Subsequent to receipt of the tenant’s request for a legal rent calculation, the Rent
Regulation Officer shall serve upon the landlord, by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, a notice of the application for a rent calculation. An additional copy of
such notice shali be sent to the landlord through the regular mail. The landlord shall have
thirty (30) days from service of the said notice to supply whatever information it deems
necessary to support the rent billing charged to the tenant. After receipt of the landlord’s
information, or after the time for supplying same has expired, the Rent Regulation
Officer shall make a determination of the legal rent.

Intentionally omitted

Any party who is no longer a tenant, but who was a tenant in a rent controlled unit in the |
City of Hoboken may request a legal rent calculation from the Rent Regulation Officer
pursuant to the terms of Regulation 10:54(A). Any such request may be made to the Rent
Regulation Officer no later than two (2) years from the date their tenancy expired, In
accordance with the limitations imposed under Ordinance 155-4(A) & (C), the
calculation is limited to the two (2) year period ending on the date the tenancy expired.

If, however, the Rent Regulation Officer concludes that the information supplied requires
a hearing or either the landlord or tenant request a hearing and demonstrates a need for
same, then a hearing shall be promptly scheduled at the Rent Control Office to be
conducted by the Rent Regulation Officer. After the hearing, the Rent Regulation Officer
shall make a determination of the legal rent and provide a written statement of any
findings of fact or conclusions of law with respect to same. If circumstances so require,
this initial hearing may be conducted by the Rent Leveling & Stabilization Board.

Approved by Board 5/27/15 Revised by Board: 9/13/23
Submitted to City Clerk 5/28/15
15525-A

SUZANNE METMAN, Division Bead
94 Washington Street - Hoboken, NJ 07030-0485 - (20:1) 420-2396 fax (201) 420-5644


     RESOLUTION TO AMEND REGULATION 10:54(A) – LEGAL RENT CALCULATION
WHEREAS Regulation 10:54(A) 02, adopted by the Board in 1987 and revised in 2015,
stipulates that upon a tenant’s request for a legal rent calculation, the Rent Regulation
Officer must provide formal notice to the landlord and 30 days within which to supply any
additional relevant information in advance of the Officer’s determination, and
WHEREAS neither Regulation 10:54(A) nor any other Regulation provides the same notice
and opportunity to the tenant when the landlord requests a legal rent calculation, and
WHEREAS the Rent Control Ordinance states that nothing may “prohibit the Rent
Regulation Officer or Board from rendering a determination as to whether the rent of the
dwelling is in excess of those permitted under this chapter” (§155-4 B), and
WHEREAS the landlord and tenant may both be in possession of information or evidence
relevant to the Rent Regulation Officer’s determination of the legal rent, and
WHEREAS the Rent Control Ordinance states: “All determinations made by the Rent
Regulation Officer are appealable to the Board” (§155-23), and it is impossible to appeal a
decision that one does not know has been made, and
WHEREAS the Ordinance empowers the Board to exercise its powers in pursuit of fairness
(§155-19), and providing one party but not the other with notice and opportunity to supply
information is manifestly unfair, and
WHEREAS the Ordinance states that “The Rent Leveling Board may consider regulations as
it deems necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter” (§155-19-A), and
WHEREAS following Regulation 10:54 02, section 03 is left “intentionally omitted,”
NOW THEREFORE, the Board hereby resolves to submit, per §155-19 A, “ for
consideration to the Administration, under its management and supervisory authority over
the Board, and for legal review by the Office of the Corporation Counsel prior to being
presented for a vote by the Board,” the following amendment to Regulation 10:54 (A) 03, in
parallel to 10:54 (A) 02:
       03 – Subsequent to receipt of the landlord’s request for a legal rent calculation, the
       Rent Regulation Officer shall serve upon the tenant, in the same manner as notice is
       served to the landlord when the tenant requests a legal rent calculation, a notice of
       the application for a rent calculation. The tenant shall have thirty (30) days from
       service of the said notice to supply whatever information it deems necessary to
       support the rent billing charged to the tenant or any other relevant information and
       documentation. After receipt of the tenant’s information or documentation, or after
       the time for supplying same has expired, the Rent Regulation Officer shall make a
       determination of the legal rent. Whether the landlord or tenant requested the legal
       rent calculation, the Rent Regulation Officer shall notify both parties of the
       determination.


 Regulation l8:54(H) • 01 •

                 If the conditions exist which constitute the deterioration of services, care or

. maintenance (the "services") at the time of the tenant's application for a rent reduction pursuant

 to l8:54(H), or if said conditions existed within sixty days of filing the application, then the

Rent Leveling and Stabilization Board (the "Board") shall determine the value of the

 deteriorated services for the period commencing no earlier than one year prior to the filing of the

 application and continuing until the date of the Board's detennination, and reduce the tenant's

rent in an amount equal to this value over a period of rental payments the Board determines

appropriate. If the deteriorated services continue to exist at the time of the Board's

determination, the Board may, in addition to the above, set an amount future rental payments

are to be reduced until the landlord demonstrates to the Rent Regulation Officer that the

deteriorated services have been corrected. Action taken by the Rent Regulation Officer

pursuant to this Regulation shall be appealable to the Board.




                                                 15527


Regulations to Chapter 155 as amended by the Board between 2022 and 2025

REGULATION #2: APPLICATIONS, APPEALS, AND EVIDENCE SUBMITTED TO THE
BOARD (2/12/2025)

A. Manner of Application and Supporting Documentation Submission:
With respect to any documents submitted for a hearing before the Board, the applicant or
appellant shall submit their documents electronically, in one PDF document with a table of
contents and sections bookmarked. If the applicant is unable to submit their documents in this
form, the applicant shall submit a single hard copy, with a table of contents and sections
physically bookmarked. The submission shall include any and all underlying documentation
submitted in support of the application or appeal. The applicant or appellant shall be responsible
to ensure that the application is submitted in a form and manner which enables the Board to
quickly and efficiently locate the underlying data submitted in support of the application. The
same rules of submission shall apply to any documentation submitted by an adversary or other
party of record in the case.
B. Timing of Submissions
All applications and supporting documentation, and any documentation or evidence to be relied
on during the hearing, must be submitted to the Rent Regulation Officer no less than two weeks
prior to the hearing date. The Rent Control Secretary shall deliver to all parties of record the
complete application and supporting documentation no less than one week prior to the hearing,
via certified electronic mail, or if necessary by certified USPS mail. Failure to comply with the
timing requirements of this regulation may result in the proposed documents not being
considered by the Board.
C. Additional requirements for submissions on appeal of a legal rent calculation
Any appeal to the Board of the determination of the Rent Control Officer of a legal rent
calculation shall include all documents that the appellant had submitted to the Rent Regulation
Officer; a statement of reasons as to the basis of the appeal; a copy of Rent Regulation Control
Officer's determination.
                                                                           Repealed by 155:23


Regulations to Chapter 155 as amended by the Board between 2022 and 2025

REGULATION #3 VACANCY DECONTROL AS TO MULTIPLE TENANTS (2/12/2025)

For purposes of establishing a vacancy decontrol for an apartment unit in accordance with
Article VII of the Rent Control Ordinance, a landlord who rents a residential apartment unit to
multiple tenants may designate an original tenant category which shall consist of all the members
of the original group of tenants to which the unit is rented.
The designation under this regulation shall stipulate that a vacancy will be deemed to have
occurred at the time that the last original tenant vacates the apartment unit and that the landlord
will be fully entitled at such time to obtain whatever vacancy decontrol relief is available under
the Ordinance in the same manner as if the unit had become completely vacant of all tenants. At
such time, the tenants then in possession may be designated as original tenants as set forth
herein.
The designation under this regulation shall be signed by the landlord and the original tenants and
a copy thereof shall be filed with the Rent Control Office within 30 days of the commencement
of the tenancy. In the event that the tenants fail or refuse to sign the designation, the landlord
may nevertheless sign and file the same along with proof of service to the tenants and proof of
original tenancy and the timeliness of the filing. The designation shall set forth the names of the
original tenants and the date of the designation along with a statement that for purposes of
vacancy decontrol, a vacancy shall be declared to exist upon the last original tenant vacating the
dwelling unit. The date of the vacancy shall be determined by the vacation of the last original
tenant. It shall likewise state that the original tenants are in possession or occupancy of the unit at
the time of the designation.
In the event a written agreement exists that substantially contains the information specified
above, and which has been entered into prior to the effective date of this regulation, then
provided that this agreement is submitted by the landlord to the Rent Control Office upon a
request for vacancy decontrol, it shall be given the same force and effect as a designation under
this regulation even though the written agreement had not been filed within 30 days of the
commencement of the tenancy.


Regulations to Chapter 155 as amended by the Board between 2022 and 2025

REGULATION #3: REQUEST FOR BOARD HEARING ADJOURNMENT (2/12/2025)

In order to have the prompt and efficient administration of pending matters before the Rent
Board and to provide due notice to all parties of interest, the following procedure shall be
followed by the Rent Leveling and Stabilization Office with respect to request for adjournments
of hearings which have been scheduled before the Rent Board.
No request for an adjournment shall be granted unless requested at least 72 hours in advance of
the hearing and with the consent of the other party. Exceptions shall only be made in a case
where extreme hardship and/or emergency is demonstrated to the Rent Leveling and
Stabilization Office.
In no event shall the Rent Leveling and Stabilization Office grant more than three adjournments
to the same party.


Regulations to Chapter 155 as amended by the Board between 2022 and 2025

REG. 18:66 FILING OF CERTIFICATE FOR DECONTROLLED UNITS (4/22/2009)

A Landlord of any dwelling subject to the provisions of this chapter may file a Certificate
pursuant to Section 155-33 for any year where the landlord legally owned the dwelling, provided
the Certificate is filed no later than the latter of either one (1) year from when the vacancy
occurred or one (1) year from when the apartment was first rented to a replacement Tenant after
a vacancy, and the dwelling must have been registered at the time of the filing in compliance
with Section 155-31. Such filing shall be considered timely under Article VII of this Chapter and
may be utilized in any legal rent determination conducted by the Rent Control Office and the
Rent Leveling and Stabilization Board, provided said Certificate is filed prior to a request for a
legal rent calculation.
A Landlord may not file a Certificate pursuant to Section 155-33 for any year where the
Landlord was not the legal owner of the dwelling. Any such filing shall be rejected by the Rent
Control Office as untimely and may not be utilized in any legal rent dete1mination conducted by
the Rent Control Office and the Rent Leveling and Stabilization Board.


Regulations to Chapter 155 as amended by the Board between 2022 and 2025

REG. 18:66 FILING OF CERTIFICATE FOR DECONTROLLED UNITS (4/22/2009)

A Landlord of any dwelling subject to the provisions of this chapter may file a Certificate
pursuant to Section 155-33 for any year where the landlord legally owned the dwelling, provided
the Certificate is filed no later than the latter of either one (1) year from when the vacancy
occurred or one (1) year from when the apartment was first rented to a replacement Tenant after
a vacancy, and the dwelling must have been registered at the time of the filing in compliance
with Section 155-31. Such filing shall be considered timely under Article VII of this Chapter and
may be utilized in any legal rent determination conducted by the Rent Control Office and the
Rent Leveling and Stabilization Board, provided said Certificate is filed prior to a request for a
legal rent calculation.
A Landlord may not file a Certificate pursuant to Section 155-33 for any year where the
Landlord was not the legal owner of the dwelling. Any such filing shall be rejected by the Rent
Control Office as untimely and may not be utilized in any legal rent dete1mination conducted by
the Rent Control Office and the Rent Leveling and Stabilization Board.


Reg. 18:66
Filing of Certificate for Decontrolled Units

A Landlord of any dwelling subject to the provisions of this chapter may file a Certificate
pursuant to Section 155-33 for any year where the landlord legally owned the dwelling,
provided the Certificate is filed no later than the latter of either one (1) year from when
the vacancy occurred or one (1) year from when the apartment was first rented to a
replacement Tenant after a vacancy, and the dwelling must have been registered at the
time of the filing in compliance with Section 155-31. Such filing shall be considered
timely under Article VIL of this Chapter and may be utilized in any legal rent
determination conducted by the Rent Control Office and the Rent Leveling and
Stabilization Board, provided said Certificate is filed prior to a request for a legal rent
calculation.

A Landlord may not file a Certificate pursuant to Section 155-33 for any year where the
Landlord was not the legal owner of the dwelling. Any such filing shall be rejected by
the Rent Control Office as untimely and-may not be utilized in any legal rent
determination conducted by the Rent Control Office and the Rent Leveling and

Stabilization Board.

Approved by the Board: 4/22/09

Submitted to City Clerk: 4/23/09 = =
2
Ro ~s
a
=< N

i)

=

Cm =

on

pa Se a

2 rd
ro)

a <r

Pg. 15536

QSAIS9aY


Reg. 18:67

Timing Requirements of Vacancy Decontrol Certificates

A vacancy decontrol certificate filed by a landlord after a tenant requests a legal rent
calculation may not be utilized for the purposes of conducting a future rent calculation.
Any such vacancy decontrol certificate submitted by a landlord shall be considered
untimely in violation o(Regulation 18 :66, and may not be used to calculate the legal rent
of a dwelling.

In the event a tenant vacates after a vacancy decontrol certificate was rejected for the
reasons described in the preceding paragraph, a landlord may properly file a vacancy
decontrol certificate relating to the departure of that tenant, provided said certificate is
filed within six (6) years of the departure and is otherwise in compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.


Approved by the Board 3/26/08
Submitted to City Clerk 4/3/08




                                          Pg. 15537


Regulations to Chapter 155 as amended by the Board between 2022 and 2025

REGULATION 18:69: CODIFICATION OF PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED BY THE
RENT LEVELING & STABLIZATION BOARD FOR PUBLIC COMMENTS DURING
BOARD MEETINGS (4/13/2022)

For the purpose of clarifying the policy and procedure for permitting public comments during
Rent Leveling & Stabilization Board meetings, the following policy and procedure has been
established.
During the Appeals and Other Matters portion of the meeting, members of the public will be able
to speak for five (5) minutes after applicants, respondents, witnesses and/or experts have
concluded their presentations. The Board Chair will then open Public Comments for the relevant
case. Each person addressing the Board gives their name in an audible tone of voice for the
record. All remarks shall be addressed to the Board Chair; no remarks shall be addressed to the
other members of the Board without the permission of the Board Chair and the member to be
addressed. No person other than members of the Board and the person having the floor shall be
permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the Board, without
the permission of the Board Chair. Applicants, respondents, witnesses, and/or experts cannot
enter into discussion with the members of the public that speak without the permission of the
Board Chair.
